---
layout: post
title: Is real intelligence better than artificial?
tag: discussion
---

According to WHO, healthcare is in resource crisis. What kind of development is needed to solve these problems? From a historical point of view, new types of interventions and new medications have revolutionised medicine during the last two centuries. But now the primary shortage is neither the lack of new intervention methods nor lack of pharmaceutical inventions. According to WHO, we are in a shortage of skilled workers in healthcare. But I only partly agree. 

I agree that an increase in the numbers of skilled workers could partly be a solution to an underlying problem. What would those healthcare workers do? Of course, they would examine the patients and make surgical procedure. But a huge portion of their time they would probably sit by the desk looking at papers or at a computer screen and do administrative work. According to professor John Kotter, administrative and intellectual work can be divided into *managing* and *leading*. In healthcare, the managing work includes consultations, writing referrals, prescriptions, medical records. This flow of communication, either by spoken word or written on computers or papers, is important. It is important because the shared knowledge that comes out of this communication allows every part of the healthcare system to do their best possible work in their field. The intellectual work of one particular expert depends on the results from the intellectual work of many other experts. 

The science of today is based upon arguments and should be as transparent as possible. You have to observe differences in groups and make statistics based upon that. In the end, you hopefully get an answer, if the procedure (or medication, or something else) is beneficial or not for the patient in question. These scientific papers are the basis upon which the guidelines and medical algorithms are made. To develop such an algorithm or guidelines requires what I would call *real intelligence*. This kind of work often involves knowledge, creativity as well as argument skills. This is done by experts in different fields. The role of a physician is often to put different algorithms together, like with a jigsaw puzzle. Not seldom the physician has to ask an elder college or call an expert in a certain field. All of this takes a long time. But how much time would be gained if computers could collect guidelines from different experts and present the healthcare worker and the patient with available options? This would be a much more efficient way to use real intelligence. This is my goal with the programming language LYMPHA.

In artificial intelligence like e.g. neural network, the user of the program has only to come up with what result is desirable. The AI-engine will then, based on knowledge of similar cases, make a prediction of the best way to get as close to the desired result as possible. This can be very beneficial when it comes to medical questions where the result of an examination is binary. E.g. does this X-ray picture show a fracture -- yes or no? Problems arise where there are no clear, binary answers. E.g. the bus-driver who had to stop working because his doctor had prescribed him a hypertension medication that made him urinate very often. So is real intelligence better than artificial? I would say that real intelligence is better as a general strategy in medicine. However, AI could be beneficial in some fields.


**References**

https://www.who.int/workforcealliance/about/hrh_crisis/en/

https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0009926017305354
